# A Closer Look at a Distribution

Now that you know your way around `Dist::Zilla` a bit, it's time to take a
closer look at its output through a broad examination of the distribution we
just created with the `[@Starter]` bundle in the last tutorial. As this is only
a tutorial, we will provide just enough information to satisfy the curious and
set the stage for some more advanced tutorials. But an entire book could be
written about all the different components of a Perl distribution that we
definitely aren't getting paid well enough to document here.

## Examining Your Work Area After a `dzil build`

Most of the interesting stuff is in the `sayhi-0.001` folder, which contains
your distribution, but let's say a few words about what was added to your
work area, or **"source tree,"** as it is more commonly referred to as.

If you run `ls -a` in the root of your workarea, you'll see a `.build`
directory. This directory is not very interesting for you except for the
`latest` symbolic link in there which points to any failed test results. The
`.build` directory is removed for you when you do `dzil clean`.

The only other thing to note for the sake of being complete is the addition of
the `READM.mkdn` file which we already covered in a previous tutorial.

So now let's talk about the distribution itself.

## Your Module's Distribution

You distribution has two components, the `sayhi-0.001` directory and all of its
content and the `sayhi-0.0001.tar.gz` which, as we've already mentioned, is
just an archived version of the `sayhi-0.001` directory placed there for your
convenience.

Dive down into your distribution with `cd sayhi-0.001`, also known as your
**"build tree,"** and we'll step through each of the files and directories we see
from left to right with the `ls -l` command.

### The `bin` Directory

Nothing exciting here. This is where your `sayhi` command is stored.

### `dist.ini` File

It's considered good practice to ship your `dist.ini` file along with your
distribution so the `[@Starter]` bundle leaves it in for you.

### The `lib` Directory

This is where your actual modules lives.

### LICENSE

Yup, this contains a copy of your license. The license is automatically
generated for you based on setting in your default configuration using the
`[License]` plugin. If you want to override the default license, the easiest
thing to do is to modify your `dist.ini` file. You can get a list of available
licenses in the [`[License]` plugin's
documentation](https://metacpan.org/pod/Software::License).

As you might imagine, there are other advanced plugins you can use to help you
generate this file. We'll leave that for you to explore.

### Makefile.PL

This is by far the most complicated part of your distribution and is at the
heart of it. You have encountered the `Makefile.PL` if you have ever installed a
Perl module manually with the magic incantation, `perl Makefile.pl`. One of the
key jobs of `Dist::Zilla` during the build phase is to generate the
`Makefile.pl` file.

`Makefile.PL` is what's known as a "build system" and one of its key jobs is to
build your distribution. However, this job is completely replaced by
`Dist::Zilla` which does all of the distribution building for you. So why do we
need it?

`Dist::Zilla` still needs `Makefile.PL` to run tests on the distribution and to
create the tarball. Most importantly, `Makefile.PL` is needed to install the
software on another computer.

Going into any more detail on this file is beyond the scope of this tutorial.
But we encourage you to read up on it and get familiar with it especially if you
want to someday become a `Dist::Zilla` pro and write all kinds of advanced
plugins.

### The MANIFEST

Nothing too interesting here, just a straight up listing of all the files in the
distribution. It's mostly there to help the installer do its thing, install your
software.

### META.json and META.yml

There are two different files containing essentially the same meta information
about your module. Strictly speaking you don't need both, but it's good practice
and since `Dist::Zilla` does all the hard work of generating them for you, it's
not a big deal to do it. These files are generated by the `[MetaYAML]` and
`[MetaJSON]` plugins.

These files have a couple of important roles in our distriubtion. First they are
used by CPAN to tell the world about your module and automatically generate
technical documentation about your module for human consumption. They are also
used by installeirs to determine some basic requirements for your module's
installation.

If you're interested to know, the json format is the more modern standard and
can provides more metadata than the yaml file format. But we still need the yaml
format hanging around to keep users with more ancient installers happy. The
default `[@Basic]` bundle doesn't yet include the `[MetaJSON]` and so it's yet
another good reason to take the time to install the `[@Starter]` bundle and use
it instead.

### README, Please!

Here is our lowly, plain text `README` file. There are no requirements for what
should go into the `README` file. But more and more we see developers stuffing
their POD into them as GitHub has risen to prominence and made `README` files
useful again. So, we have done the same. It's certainly better than the other
useless information you usually find in them.

### Testing 1, 2, 3

Lastly, we see two directories, `t` and `xt`. If you are familiar with testing
Perl modules, you'll recognize these directories as the home of the module tests
that get run by you and the installer to make sure your module works properly
and the author tests that only the developer will run.

Using `Dist::Zilla` to test your distribution is a topic worthy of a tutorial
all by itself. So please continue on to learn more.
